---
note-type: class-note
tags:
related-concepts:
  - "[[Web Development]]"
course-name: "[[Introduction to Web Development]]"
---
## Summary

## Software Development Lifecycle
1. **Requirements**: Define the problem and set goals.
2. **Design**: Design how the solution will be developed and structured and what resources will be utilized.
3. **Implementation**: Write code and bring technology together to create the solution.
4. **Verification**: Once the system is working, conduct tests to ensure the solution meets the needs and is working properly.
5. **Maintenance**: Feedback, logs, bug reports, and feature suggestions trigger the process to begin again to resolve performance and operational issues, build new features, and resolve bugs and vulnerabilities.
## Project Management Methodologies
- **Waterfall**: A sequential development process that flows from one phase of the project to the next, like a waterfall, each phase being completed before the next begins.
- **Agile**: A software development process that includes requirement and solution discovery throughout the project and organizes tasks into sprints.
- **Scrum**: An agile software development method that includes continuous requirement and solution discovery; however, the sprint teams are encouraged to self-manage and reflect using daily scrum meetings.
- **DevOps**: A software development method that integrates the functions of IT operations with development and makes use of automation tools to reduce the time between receiving feedback and initiating a development cycle.
- **Kanban**: Japanese for visual board or sign, and a task management methodology that uses cards to represent tasks, which are organized on a board based on their status.
## Best Practices for Web Development
1. Maintain clean and consistent code.
2. Use **semantic tags** to structure page contents.
3. Use **version control** software.
4. Incorporate responsive design.
5. Build efficiencies into your work.
6. Conduct cross-browser testing.


---
#### Resources